# Obligatory "Why Lisp?" Section

Every lisp book pretty much has a "Why Lisp?" chapter meant to convince you of the greatness of this language. Mostly it's either a list of technical advantages as you'd expect from a technical manual or some philosophical musig about "enlightenment" or whatever. I'll instead focus on how incredibly fun it is to work with this language. Lisp is fun as hell! The fact that in the last 10-15 years it has grown into a great development platform is a very welcome bonus, but even if it was completely useless I would probably still spend a lot of time with it. Because of the short feedback cycle produced by a very interactive environment such as a Lisp system, the mind finds itself fighting its tools much less frequently, which contributes to the joy. You're not writing code when you work with Lisp, instead you're interacting with a living system, all of it's power under your fingertips. It's deeply emotional. Once you become proficient in it it's just a blast. Even writing this book is fun, if a bit challenging at times. All in all, I give it 5 UFOs out of 5, at least on the "fun scale"

Now, without getting too technical, here are some other highlights: Lisp is called the programmable programming language for a reason, it is designed to adopt to your problems. It has a solid core developed out of decades of experience. Not many parts of Common Lisp made it in without significant thought, experimentation and debate taking place over many years. It has an incredibly old and rich tradition tracing it's roots to the beginning of our discipline, yet because of it's flexibility it has adopted and grown. It's interactive nature came straight out of the imagination of true dreamers. It's solid, stable and fast. It's helped generations of programmers solve problems nobody would dare tackle with lesser tools, it has the track record and the street cred. It has a bright future ahead of it, not just a glorious past. Every day new code is written, some of it by people who weren't even born when the ANSI standard was published, new people come and old people leave.

If you don't care for any of that, that's ok. I'm a bit over-enthusiastic and probably come off as a bit of a loon. You on the other hand can think of Lisp as just another cool language to play around with. That's the point, you can make it your own. You can try it out on a weekend and never touch it again, or you can go deep like me and so many others, or you can find your own middle-ground. Give it a try and have fun!